the Hammerhead is a new arrival in the
shark family it's thought to have first
appeared in the oceans of mere 40
million years ago but nobody's really
sure there are precious few clues to the
origins of the hammer sharks almost
never leave behind fossils the main
source of evidence about an animal's
fast
ancient fish with skeletons made of hard
bone left behind a detailed record of
their evolution but shark skeletons are
made of cartilage so teeth and jaws are
all that usually remain this means that
a few clues to the ancestry of
hammerhead sharks biologists have always
assumed that the Hammers we see today
grew gradually over millions of years at
the head of a typical streamline shark
grew wider expanding by very tiny
amounts each generation until eventually
after millions of years the hammerheads
we know today appeared but the latest
genetic evidence has turned this theory
upside down some scientists now think
the hammer didn't appear gradually that
perhaps it was a freak mutation that
happened almost overnight
to many biologists this is heresy the
kind of idea that would have Darwin
turning in his grave freaks of nature do
occasionally appear but they almost
never survive creatures straight out of
science fiction like this two-headed
shark doomed to an early death but just
occasionally one of these mutants does
survive and the whole new species is
born was the first hammerhead one of
these one-in-a-million freaks could its
hideously distorted head have opened up
a whole new way of life
with the ice so far out to the sides it
couldn't look forwards
so hunting using vision became
impossible it had to adapt or die
moving to the ocean floor it relied on
other senses to find food and became the
specialist hunter we know today
it might sound like fantasy but this
theory could explain the strangeness of
the hammer-shaped head
you